# Network_Intrusion_Detection_DataMining
 This GitHub repository is dedicated to a data mining course project focusing on network intrusion detection using machine learning techniques. It provides resources and datasets for building and evaluating ML models to enhance network security. Ideal for students and researchers in the field of cybersecurity and data mining.


# Dataset link
[https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aryashah2k/nfuqnidsv2-network-intrusion-detection-dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/agungpambudi/network-malware-detection-connection-analysis/data?select=CTU-IoT-Malware-Capture-1-1conn.log.labeled.csv)

# Dataset Description
A comprehensive dataset, merging all the aforementioned datasets mentioned in https://staff.itee.uq.edu.au/marius/NIDS_datasets/#RA5

The newly published dataset represents the benefits of shared dataset feature sets, where the merging of multiple smaller ones is possible. This will eventually lead to a bigger and more universal NIDS dataset containing flows from multiple network setups and different attack settings.

An additional label feature identifies the original dataset of each flow. This can be used to compare the same attack scenarios conducted over two or more different test-bed networks. The attack categories have been modified to combine all parent categories.

Attacks named DoS attacks-Hulk, DoS attacks-SlowHTTPTest, DoS attacks-GoldenEye and DoS attacks-Slowloris have been renamed to the parent DoS category. Attacks named DDOS attack-LOIC-UDP, DDOS attack-HOIC and DDoS attacks-LOIC-HTTP have been renamed to DDoS. Attacks named FTP-BruteForce, SSH-Bruteforce, Brute Force -Web and Brute Force -XSS have been combined as a brute-force category. Finally, SQL Injection attacks have been included in the injection attacks category.

The NF-UQ-NIDS dataset has a total of 11,994,893 records, out of which 9,208,048 (76.77%) are benign flows and 2,786,845 (23.23%) are attacks. The table below lists the distribution of the final attack categories.



# Malware Detection in Network Traffic Data

This dataset contains labels that describe the connections between data flows associated with potentially harmful or malicious activities. These labels were meticulously generated by the Stratosphere labs through in-depth analysis of captured malware. The aim is to offer network malware researchers and analysts a comprehensive source of information.

**Dataset chosen:** CTU-IoT-Malware-Capture-1-1conn.log.labeled.csv

## Team 12-Gold Diggers

### Members:

- Rahul Upadhyay(202218003)
- Muskan Khare(202218037)
- Jatan Sahu(202218061)
- Bhoomi Prajapati(202218063)
- Bhargav Vidja(202101201)

### Individual Contributions:

- Rahul Upadhyay(202218003)
- Muskan Khare(202218037)
- Jatan Sahu(202218061)
- Bhoomi Prajapati(202218063)
- Bhargav Vidja(202101201)

## Table of Contents

1. Data preprocessing(preprocessing.ipynb)
2. Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA.ipynb)
3. Model Prediction(modeling.ipynb)
4. Conclusion

## 1&2. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) & Preprocessing:

### T1. Explore the dataset assigned to your team and provide:

#### a) Summary of the dataset

(Include information columns present, attribute types, null values, and a summary of each attribute)

...

#### b) Data Visualization

(Summarize insights about the dataset through EDA)

...

## Classification Analysis:

### T2. Identify and list classification problems on your assigned dataset.

Which one does seem the most interesting to you and why?

...

### T3. Build an end-to-end Machine Learning pipeline.

(Pipeline chart)

...
